1. What data types do each of these values represent?
  a. "A Clockwork Orange" - string
  b. 42 - integer
  c. 09/02/1945 - date
  d. 98.7 - float
  e. $15.99 - money


2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

A text file would be used when the data in question is not huge and only a single program is writing to it at any given time. A database would be used when there is a huge amount of data being stored and there are multiple programs or instances of the same program attempting to update the data at the same time.


3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

SQL is a declarative language while many other programming languages are procedural. Declarative means that all you do is describe the result you want, and you get said result via a black box. This means that you can enter an input and receive an output without knowing the inner workings of the function/object/method.


4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

A database is similar to a table where data is stored inside the table. When a user wants to retrieve data from the database, they enter a query using a programming language like SQL.
This then searches the database in a way where the user does not know exactly how it works and returns an output with the data requested in the query.


5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

Table - The general structure that a database takes. Data is stored in cells in the table.
Row - Rows make up a complete conceptual unit within a table
Column - Columns define what the data represents
Value - The data in question contained within a cell in the table, which is an intersection of the column and row.


6. List three data types that can be used in a table.

integer, string, date


7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:
SELECT date, amount
FROM payments;

What is the date and amount spent from the payments table?


SELECT amount
FROM payments
WHERE amount > 500;

What are the amounts that I spent from the payments table where I spent more than 500?


SELECT *
FROM payments
WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

What are all of the columns from the payments table where the payee was 'Mega Foods'?


8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:
  a. The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.

  SELECT email, signup
  FROM users
  WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

  datad@comcast.net 2008-01-20


  b. The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

  SELECT userid
  FROM users
  WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

  1


  c. All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

  SELECT *
  FROM users
  WHERE userID = 4;

  Brandy Boolean bboolean@nasa.gov 1999-10-15
